# SNHU-CS-340

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?**<br />
In this project a big part of the maintainability, and adaptability is the CRUD Python module contained in the animal_shelter.py file. This module has the base requirements needed for maintiaining information in a server. With this module a new server and dashboard could be prepared and with a few altered lines this module can handle all the data handling that is necessary for this to function. Readability is assisted by using variables that explain what they contain and making sure that code is well commented to explain what different functions are doing.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist?**<br />
As a computer scientist I approach a problem incrementally based off of given requirements. Once the requirements are determined I can then figure out the best tools to achieve these requirements. This project was very different from anything I had worked on previously, this was my first time working with a database and my first time working on a Linux system. Working on this I first created the database, made the CRUD module, then made the dashboard. This was a very logical way of working through the problem of making the functional dashboard for Grazioso Salvare and going forward this is how I would handle a similar task, although since I already have a prepared CRUD module I may be able to skip this step and reuse the code I have.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter?**<br />
Computer scientists are first and foremost problem solvers in a digital world. In a world that is seeing computers being integrated into almost every facet of it at a rapid pace computer scientists are solving problems and answering questions that are being asked more and more frequently from areas that have not had to deal with computer integration till now. A good example of how computer scientists help comes from this project where applying a computer system can help make a job easier and much faster to accomplish. Instead of having a person sort through all of the animals that passed through the Austin Animal Shelter to find ones that meet the requirements for a new working dog, a task that could take a colossal amount of time and effort, a computer is able to do this same task in fractions of a second. If the database were being actively updated the dashboard would be able to on the fly update and include this new information as well. Computer scientists make many of the advances that society has seen since the first computer possible and it's exciting to see where this field will go in the future.
